A script to sync the Netbox device inventory to Zabbix.

## Requires pyzabbix and pynetbox.

### Script settings
#### Enviroment variables

* ZABBIX_HOST="https://zabbix.local"
* ZABBIX_USER="username"
* ZABBIX_PASS="Password"
* NETBOX_HOST="https://netbox.local"
* NETBOX_TOKEN="secrettoken"

#### Flags
|  Flag | Option  |  Description |
| ------------ | ------------ | ------------ |
|  -c | cluster | For clustered devices: only add the primary node of a cluster and use the cluster name as hostname. |
|  -H | hostgroup | Create non-existing hostgroups in Zabbix. Usefull for a first run to add all required hostgroups. |
|  -t | tenant | Add the tenant name to the hostgroup format (Tenant/Site/Manufacturer/Role) |
|  -v | verbose | Log with debugging on. |
|  -p | proxy-power | Force a full proxy sync. USE WITH CAUTION, see "Set proxy within Netbox" for more information |

#### Logging
Logs are generated by default to stdout and sync.log, use -v for debugging.

#### Hostgroups: manual mode

In case of omitting the -H flag, manual hostgroup creation is required for devices in a new category.

This is in the format:
{Site name}/{Manufacturer name}/{Device role name}
And with tenants (-t flag):
{Site name}/{Tenant name}/{Manufacturer name}/{Device role name}

Make sure that the Zabbix user has proper permissions to create hosts.
The hostgroups are in a nested format. This means that proper permissions only need to be applied to the site name hostgroup and cascaded to any child hostgroups.

### Netbox settings
#### Custom fields
Use the following custom fields in Netbox to map the Zabbix URL:
* Type: Integer
* Name: zabbix_hostid
* Required: False
* Default: null
* Object: dcim > device

And this field for the Zabbix template

* Type: Text
* Name: zabbix_template
* Required: False
* Default: null
* Object: dcim > device_type

#### Netbox device status
By setting a status on a Netbox device you determine how the host is added (or updated) in Zabbix. There are, by default, 3 options:
* Delete the host from Zabbix (triggered by Netbox status "Decommissioning" and "Inventory")
* Create the host in Zabbix but with a disabled status (Trigger by "Offline", "Planned", "Staged" and "Failed")
* Create the host in Zabbix with an enabled status (For now only enabled with the "Active" status)

You can modify this behaviour by changing the following list variables in the script:
 - zabbix_device_removal
 - zabbix_device_disable

#### Set proxy within Netbox
You can set the proxy for a device using the 'proxy' key in config context.
```json
{
    "zabbix": {
        "proxy": "yourawesomeproxy.local"
    }
}
```
Because of the posible amount of destruction when setting up Netbox but forgetting the proxy command, the sync works a bit different. By default everything is synced except in a situation where the Zabbix host has a proxy configured but nothing is configured in Netbox. To force deletion and a full sync, use the -p flag.

#### Set interface parameters within Netbox
When adding a new device, you can set the interface type with custom context.
Due to Zabbix limitations of changing interface type with a linked template, changing the interface type from within Netbox is not supported and the script will generate an error.

For example when changing a SNMP interface to an Agent interface:
```
Netbox-Zabbix-sync - WARNING - Device: Interface OUT of sync.
Netbox-Zabbix-sync - ERROR - Device: changing interface type to 1 is not supported.
```

To configure the interface parameters you'll need to use custom context. Custom context was used to make this script as customizable as posible for each environment. For example, you could:
 * Set the custom context directly on a device
 * Set the custom context on a label, which you would add to a device (for instance, SNMPv3)
 * Set the custom context on a device role
 * Set the custom context on a site or region

##### Agent interface configuration example
```json
{
    "zabbix": {
        "interface_port": 1500,
        "interface_type": 1
    }
}
```
##### SNMPv2 interface configuration example
```json
{
    "zabbix": {
        "interface_port": 161,
        "interface_type": 2,
        "snmp": {
            "bulk": 1,
            "community": "SecretCommunity",
            "version": 2
        }
    }
}
```
##### SNMPv3 interface configuration example
```json
{
    "zabbix": {
        "interface_port": 1610,
        "interface_type": 2,
        "snmp": {
            "authpassphrase": "SecretAuth",
            "bulk": 1,
            "securitylevel": 1,
            "securityname": "MySecurityName",
            "version": 3
        }
    }
}
```
Note: Not all SNMP data is required for a working configuration. [The following parameters are allowed ](https://www.zabbix.com/documentation/current/manual/api/reference/hostinterface/object#details_tag "The following parameters are allowed ")but are not all required, depending on your environment.

#### Permissions
Make sure that the user has proper permissions for device read and modify (modify to set the Zabbix HostID custom field) operations.

#### Custom links
To make the user experience easier you could add a custom link that redirects users to the Zabbix latest data.

* Name: zabbix_latestData
* Text: {% if obj.cf["zabbix_hostid"] %}Show host in Zabbix{% endif %}
* URL: {ZABBIX_URL} /zabbix.php?action=latest.view&filter_hostids[]={{ obj.cf["zabbix_hostid"] }}&filter_application=&filter_select=&filter_set=1
